We're two stars.
Did you really intend to kill us, though?
Well, I still intend to kill them.
I mean, it's always been my desire to, you know, to get some kind of vengeance in time.
But, you know,
Some people kill me, some I'm not.
You actually, I mean, as I read the book, you went in there with a piece, and this was going to be the moment.
Yeah, I first got that, that, that gun in 1976, when I was still covering all the other crimes.
I mean, it was always in the back of my head.
I killed somebody.
I didn't even know this guy was alive.
But, you know, John and I kept in battle with this.
You know, I used to hug him.
Did you know John and he had this in the back of his mind?
And you still say that you're not.
This is a later question, but I wonder.
with the completion of this book, if you feel, is there a great weight lifting from your shoulders?
It's a cliché, especially with a book like this.
The people that write about us say the same thing, and I think you said the same thing in a letter to me, like, this is the book I became a writer to write, and we might even get into that.
Having written this book that you became a writer to do, how do you feel about what the book looks like?
I feel like stuff writing.
I think my writing career should come to an end.
But the... You know, the wound is still there, you know.
It hasn't relieved that at all.
I don't think anything ever can.
It's like...
I'm going to have to go back even to the little boy Nicola here.
You went to BU in journalism school, and I don't know much about what you did in Worcester, but is this a fact that you actually intend to become a writer to do something like, to do a look at this?
Oh yeah, the first time I decided to go into writing was when I was at Chandler Junior High School, and
my English teacher, Marjorie Herd, who's Marjorie Rabide, who's retired now, but she was a wonderful teacher.
And she got me to write something about my, you know, my years in Greece.
And I wrote this for the school paper.
And I wrote this thing, this piece, on a Saturday afternoon.
And, uh,
She printed it, and without telling me, she submitted it to an essay contest that was sponsored by the Freedom Foundation.
And it won a prize.
So at that time, I said to myself, now this is what I should do.
This is year of 13 years now.
Yeah.
She told you specifically to write about, you wrote about your experiences in Greece?
This is just something that you decided to write about.
No, she told me, you know, she said, I had gone to get my citizenship papers, and she said, you know, write something about the time in Greece, and I wrote it, and that really, and then I became editor of the junior high school paper, I became
I went to classical high school.
I became editor of the high school paper.
And I went to Boston University.
I became editor of the BU paper in my sophomore year.
And then I went to Columbia Journalism School.
So I knew from 14, from age 14.
And I didn't realize until I was into this book that the reason I really focused on investigating
investigator reporting was in part to... I was in training, you know.
I've been training all my life.
So this is, you know, to use an obvious metaphor, I mean, you were actually training for the big championship fight here.
This was the big one.
Yeah.
It was the... Well, it's not a fight.
It was... It was the... The thing, really, that...
has shaped me as a person, these experiences.
The way childhood shapes everybody, but since mine was a traumatic childhood, what is interesting is that it didn't, it made me stronger, it didn't make me weaker.
What specifically made you stronger, the experience?
The experience, because when I was, you know, very young, I was
shy and I remember, you know, and sort of reserved and I remember my mother saying that she wished that one of my, my sister was a year older than me, that I had her gumption because I was, but rather than sort of being
being crushed by this.
I think it made me draw, find great reserves of inner strength and made me, basically I felt that my life wasn't my own, that I owed it to my mother.
I ordered her to make something of it.
Would you say you became obsessed with this, Nick?
Not obsessed, no.
I don't think obsessed.
It's just that... One can almost feel it in here.
Well, once I started working on that exclusively and became obsessed with it, but... It's like somebody who...
you know who wants to you know who has you know wants to be something and works all his life for it.
It was a something that I had to confront in my life at some point and I think I deliberately delayed it until I was in
At my best, I think, you know.
And emotionally, you know, strong.
And also, like I said in the book, that the other times that I tried to do this, it was too painful for me.
And it was after having my own children that I realized that
you know, that my mother had, my mother's life wasn't all misery, that she had moments of happiness through her children.
And that made me, that made it possible for me to go back and look at her life.
And there are some age parallels here too.
Yeah, I was exactly the same age.
And your children.
And my children were the same age as, my son was the same age as I was when I started.
How clear are your memories of this period?
I remember everything from the arrival of the Germans in our village in 1944 when I was, it was in April of 1944, I was not yet fired.
I remember everything from that point on.
Vividly.
Vividly, you know.
What people wore... Without being able to reconstruct the dialogue.
Well, the dialogue...
Sometimes not, but the experiences... What happened when I was present, I remember vividly.
Of course, there was a lot that happened when I wasn't present, and that required tremendous reconstruction.
And also, some aspects, other people had better memories than I did, you know.
To my mind, there's only one thing that needs an explanation in this book, and that doesn't really need an explanation, but I'd like to put something in on it, is how you feel you are able to reconstruct the thoughts of people, particularly when your mother's walking off alone.
Well, I said that in the... You quote Thucydides there, right?
Yeah, quote Thucydides.
No, no, I don't quote Thucydides on that.
I quote Thucydides on reconstructing conversation.
But the thoughts of people, basically, I did in two ways.
One was through interviews of people who met my mother, for example, when she was walking around.
I quoted one or two people who had run into her in between the periods when she was in prison.
But she ran into, you know, a dozen people, and they told me what she said to them and so forth.
A lot of that I just put as thoughts when there were emotions that my mother expressed to somebody, or other people expressed to somebody.
In the final thing, there were some places where, of course, she was completely alone, and I just went up to... I went to...
There was, sure.
There was the Marianthi who escaped from the prison.
They all went together.
So I... And she told me how, you know, she talked about where every village they passed, where it could get here and, you know, and so forth.
So actually it is... Actually, I can... If you were to go through all of it, I can tell you the source of all of it.
So there actually is a source to... Everything.
Everything.
That's a very important point to make.
Yeah.
It may not appear, and the reader may say, gee, how did you get that?
But...
I can give you the name of the source, and I have the stuff.
I have a closet full of notes.
I mean, the notes I'll show to you later.
Well, I think it's an important statement to make is that you are really not becoming too much of a novelist here.
No, no, no.
I mean, you're just using the techniques of the fiction writer.
Often, often, the dialogue is verbatim.
What she said, you wouldn't think that.
But also makes sister to remember and describe what she said.
And that some people...
There's a woman in Salonika, for example, Angelky, who saw my mother.
She's the one with the gold sovereigns.
They called her in and asked her about the gold sovereigns.
She has a fantastic memory.
And I was just in Greece, and I saw her.
And I told her that I met this British commando in London.
And she said, oh, yeah.
She said, you know, I remember she said he used to wear a little gold shoe on a chain.
that his fiancée had given him.
And when I went to London, I asked him, and he said, yes, you know, his fiancée was a nurse in Cairo, and just before he dropped into the village, he gave him this gold shoe.
And I didn't describe it in the book, but... But...
She, for example, has a fantastic memory where she can tell you what people wore, exactly what they said, how they looked, everything.
There were two or three people like that.
You found a lot of, if not resentment, but difficulty in talking to a lot of these people.
Why would you think that was?
Well, they all want to put in their past, you know.
It was a period when most people showed their worst sides of themselves, and they want to forget it.
They want to forget it, or they want to mythologize it, you know.
I mean, particularly the leftists, you know, the communists.
Well, you point this out, that...
They've gotten rid of the day of mourning, apparently.
Yeah.
That's gone now.
Everything is gone.
There's no official holiday.
Yeah?
Good.
Bravo.
Have you ever been able to explain for yourself how it's possible that Greeks could be so beastly and unconscionably cruel to other Greeks?
Well, you know, it happens with people.
The same reason that Irishmen in Northern Ireland, they're all Irish and they can be beastly to each other.
Ideologies separate people.
When people adopt causes fanatically, and they put human life and human dignity above any cause, I don't care what it is.
then it takes away the humanity completely and they can become that way.
And I think it's the only explanation that I can see.
Because ordinarily, you know, you meet these people under different circumstances.
They're hospitable, generous, you know.
They're a lawyer, for instance.
A gentleman in college.
Yeah, yeah.
But, you know, he's not... You know, he... I mean, there were some of these people that were misfits, you know, who had these... He's a miserable person.
I mean, his wife can't stand him, and it was clear from the conversation.
people in this town don't like him.
I mean, there are just some people who are just miserable people.
He found an expression to legitimize
all his hostilities, you know, that he must have gotten at some point in his life.
Are there any kind of ghosts that you live with, I mean, on a daily basis, things, let me explain a little bit, I mean, things that bother you, that might have been, I mean, as I read this book, there are any number of, you use the image of doors closing, the final doors closing, doors closing.
Why didn't we leave the village then when we could have?
Why didn't my father bring us over when he could have?
I do that.
Of course, my father blames himself.
Everybody blames themselves.
I was too young to have been in a decision-making, to be in a decision-making role.
I think I would have made as many mistakes as everyone else, so I don't blame them, you know.
Arthur Gelborn said to me that day, he said, you know, you're hard on your father in this book, you know, and I said, not as hard as I am, as he is on himself, you know.
He's much harder on himself, and I try to... Do you think you're harder than your father?
No, I don't.
You know, I do.
It's a question I have.
But you have to look at the context in which people made decisions, and I did learn one thing that held me in good stead from that period, and that is that
get out of the get out of the line of fire you know if you can escape the bullet one you know if you uh and i was you know i've been in situation in iran for example when you know when they were shooting at a hotel where i was wearing i just went in the bathroom when there were no windows you know and one of my colleagues was killed there you know in other situations i um you know the if
If anything haunts me, it's why I didn't kill the son of a bitch.
You know, I still feel I should have killed him.
I should have brought myself to kill him.
At that moment, what is about you?
Well, like I said, exactly what I said in the book, his daughter came in with his grandson, and...
So either I had to kill everybody in the room.
Now, there's another moment, though, when you let yourself in the room.
Yeah, that was a much cooler moment, you see.
I was not angry.
I had not confronted him.
And I saw him as an old man, and I suddenly said, you know, there's no satisfaction.
I mean, the reason I made the decision, let's take it,
Both decisions.
The first decision... Because I understood that one.
The whole family was there.
You didn't want to kill innocent people who had nothing to do with the... Right.
But also, you see, I didn't have to kill innocent people.
I could have just killed him and waited there, you know.
Yeah, but I liked your plan.
Your plan was beautiful.
Getting out.
Of course, then you'd have confessed it in the book and they'd be extradited.
No, you know, this is something that most people, they would not be extraditing me.
I had researched it.
A country cannot extradite its own citizens for any crime.
America cannot extradite you if you're an American citizen to another country if you've committed a crime here.
That was my one question.
I said, well, let's say he did blow this guy away.
Yeah.
And he got out according to the plan, which I thought was beautiful.
Yeah, yeah.
No, there's no way they could have extradited him.
Really?
The...
Um, you can only extradite people who are not, uh, under... For capital crimes?
Yeah, oh yeah.
What they could do, they could have done, they could try to come here and press charges here and have me tried here, but I'd never be convicted here.
So I wasn't worried about that.
Now that was the first time.
The second, so I could have, I could have shot him and I would have been caught.
And I would have gone to prison, you know, and I couldn't deny myself.
I thought of my own children and I couldn't deny myself being separated from them, you know.
It was very fast, but I knew it, you know, I just knew it.
Because you didn't have the weapon at it, I don't think.
You never got to the point of... No, I had my hand, I had it in the small of my back.
This is in the first conversation.
Yeah.
But I mean when you went in, when you let yourself in.
The second time, now we'll get to the second time.
The second time, when I got in, I took out the gun, but I knew... I took it out, but...
Two things kept me from there.
One is I saw the guy, I mean... And he was a pathetic old man.
Well, he was a pathetic old man, and he was... Old is the key word there, because shaving a few months or a few years off his life would not have been just payment for my mother's life, and would have changed the context.
I mean, people would have...
people would be debating, would be focusing on his killing of what I did to him rather than what he did to her and to all the others.
So I didn't want him at the end of his life to escape the consequences of his acts.
by just taking a few years off his life.
That was very rational.
It was a cool moment.
The first time I was, I mean... Well, he angered you.
Well, he angered me, but I went there angry.
You see, I had been waiting for him in Athens, you know, and every day for him to call me, and it didn't come, and then there was a moment, there was only one day left, and I, you know, I flew there, I got in a car, I drove up, and by the time I got there,
You didn't have to be provoked.
I didn't have... Well, I needed to be provoked to do something irrational, like killing him and not worrying about, not thinking about the consequences, which... But he didn't do it, and I... He denied it throughout.
He denied it, but I mean, he was the...
It was sort of a feeble denial.
I mean, everybody... I mean, there were 300 people at the trial, there's no... There's no doubt.
There's no doubt, and there's no... He denied participating in trials of any civilians, and when you were a judge, a guerrilla judge, you participate in whatever trials they told you to participate in, and civilians are military, you know.
So, he was just, like all of them now, they tried to, you know,
We only shot in self-defense and we only executed prisoners after, you know, formal trials.
But, you know, they were in the village near Sutsamanda, they found 121 bodies, you know, and in addition to the four officers in whose trial he presided.
So,
It, you know, the denial, not even his wife believed him, which is why she stopped him, you know, when he rose.
Have you listened to the tape?
You must have, I imagine you've listened to the tape many times.
You mentioned the tape.
Yeah, I do, I have the tape.
And, I mean, because it's a verbatim discussion there.
Yeah, the dialogue is word-to-word, and I have the tape.
I taped a lot of these conversations.
In fact, a lot of it where they knew it and a lot of it where they didn't know it.
Yeah, that's right.
I mean, because that, you know, in case any will never deny saying it, you know, or something.
Do you think, will this be published in Greece, do you think?
Or do you think the political climate will not be... Well, you know, I think it can be published in Greece.
I haven't made any effort yet to publish it in Greece, because...
I want to wait till it's published in the United States and in Europe and the full impact of the book is there so that they can't play games with it, you know.
I'm not saying that this government is
He's communist, but it wants to... I mean, the present Prime Minister, unlike his father, was not in Greece during that whole period, during the whole ten years, either World War II or the Civil War, and knows... He was here, right?
He was here, and he knows nothing about it.
And his wife told me that it's the thing that they fought most about with his father,
because his father was a prime minister during this period for one time.
And one of the conditions that the guerrillas had for going into negotiations is that his father be tried as a war criminal and executed, you know?
So it's ironic now that he comes along and he plays this... I mean, I cannot...
His message is that we have to forget about it and unite and so forth.
I think the Greeks were on their way toward that, and by now pretending that that didn't happen or trying to rewrite history, it provokes those people who lost fathers and sons and brothers and mothers and daughters
And so that there's a polarization in Greece, whereas if he had left it alone, time would have taken care of it, you know.
What are your feelings about the character of Greece?
Well, I know them, you know.
Are there misgivings about where it's going?
Well, you know, I have some misgivings about it, but I know Andreas.
I think he's a sincere man, but I think that...
I don't think he understands the, you know, the communist threat, because Greece, you see, is the only place that they lost, and it is stuck in their gullet, you know.
I mean, I've traveled all over Eastern Europe and all over Western Europe, and the most fanatic and vengeful
Marxist I've encountered are in Greece.
And not even party leaders that I've met in communist countries as fanatic as Greek communist.
And the reason for that is that they lost and they can't accept it.
These obviously would be the older ones.
The older ones, yeah.
How about the younger ones?
The younger ones have been sold a bill of goods.
You know, the party has...
has told him, has told them that these guerrillas were freedom fighters and fighting for Greece's independence
suffering in the mountains and so forth.
And they don't tell them what they did to the civilians and to the prisoners they captured.
Well, you mentioned some of the younger kids, the students today, will come around and say, well, if they kill people, there must have been a good reason for that.
Yeah, yeah.
And they do not accept the contention that children were gathered up to gather... Yeah, they don't.
How do you pronounce that word?
It also leads people to
To ask some hard questions, for example, I abhor the violence of the right in El Salvador, you know, and as any human being would.
But that gets reported.
I mean, I have not seen stories of what the guerrillas are doing in the villages that they've captured and controlled, you know.
Because they're all reported there.
Yeah, they're all sitting in hotels in El Salvador, you know.
And, which is the way Greece was reported.
If you read the reporting from that period at that time, you know, all the bad guys were in Athens and all... Really?
Oh, yeah.
It's exactly the way... The World of Fame was which way?
It was... A lot of the sympathies were with guerrillas.
Really?
Sure.
You read the reporting of many people like, you know, Homer Bigert and some very well-known reporters from that time.
and they focused on the corruption and the abuses and the executions that the government carried out, which is right, but nobody went through and reported the thousands of people that were killed and every time a village was
liberated by government troops, every few hundred feet you found a corpse, you know.
There were no reporters that went with the troops.
Well, you point out that on both sides, the concept of taking prisoners was not consistent.
It was given all water and expected all water.
Oh yeah, I have no sympathies.
I interviewed one guy who was an irregular and he told me he killed all
all prisoners that he took, you know, and, I mean, I despise him as much as I despise... I mean, and that's as bad as that is, but when it expands itself into the killing with the Samidians, that's... Well, killing anybody, I mean, it's just so... You know, I saw a picture in Time, I think it was not this week, but last week, and it showed...
It showed a gorilla in El Salvador standing like this with the body of a dead government officer.
And the disdain that you see in the eyes of the gorilla and the look of the gorilla for human life, it doesn't matter that it's the enemy.
a human being's dead, I mean, I would be moved, tells me that I don't want to be ruled by that guy, you know.
I don't want to be in a country where that guy has any power, you know.
And so, you know, we tend to... I saw a very good play in London called Map of the World that sort of changes, you know, some of the...
stand some of the liberal ideas upside down, you know, and essentially comes down on a humanistic liberal note, but raises some very interesting questions.
There's a funny line in it where the guy says,
You know, somebody mentioned Fidel Castro, you know, with great admiration.
And this guy says, how can you take anyone seriously, he said, who was an extra in a Nesta Williams movie?
I just heard that.
I just heard that yesterday.
That was a trivia question.
If it seems like I'm not asking you a lot of questions about the book, it's because I read the book.
That's all right, yeah.
And I lose the book.
Yeah, yeah, sure.
It seems to me to ask questions to which I already know the answer.
No, no, no.
You ask whatever you want.
We're just covering, I will be using the book, you know, obviously.
How about the village itself?
I mean, you must have ambivalent feelings about the village, and yet you go back there, you do good works there.
One asks, I mean, I wonder if this subconsciously, are you trying to build a monument or something?
I think so.
I think basically that's
You know, my mother was in a better position than most villages because my father was in the States.
And was resented for it.
Yeah, and was resented for it.
But wherever she had, she shared, you know.
And so I do things for the village, mainly because I like it.
It's a beautiful area.
And I want to survive.
But more than that, I want people to know that
You know, this is the son of Eleni Kadrianis, and this is what she was like.
It's kind of a monument, but it's a way of carrying on what my mother represented in the village.
Do you harbor any resentment to the people in the village?
Yes, some of those people.
Wondering, thinking, and criticizing.
Oh, yeah.
And then, you know, I... And people who are, you know, who testified against... There was one guy who had recently came back from Hungary, and I ran into him in the coffee house.
He had testified against my aunt.
And somebody said to me, do you know Uncle Foti?
And I said, yes, I know him.
I said, he's not.
Well, the Greek word is kathiki.
It's sort of the worst thing you can call it.
It means chamber pot.
He's a, you know, a, a, um, um, a trader and a, um,
and, you know, and I call every name in the book.
I know the word you're looking for.
I mean, what's the person who points to the thing that I didn't condemn to the book?
I know the word.
Informant.
Not an informant, but more its words.
I know the word.
Stool pigeon.
Not a stool pigeon.
Informa.
I know the word.
Yeah, prodottis and... I'll come up with a fundamental way to... Yeah, yeah.
How do you think that the people... And he said, what did he say?
And I went right up to his nose, within about three inches from his eyes, and I said, I said you were an informant, an informer, a traitor, and a shit, you know.
And I said, now do you hear me?
And he had sons and brothers and cousins... Who were there.
Who were there, you know, and they could have...
defended him, but they saw the look in my eye and they just let it go.
Do you think they knew what you were talking about?
Oh yeah, they all knew, everybody in the village knows.
And what do you think his motive was?
You know, to impress the gorillas.
This was a man, basically, you know, this was a man who was a little
a little man who traveled around, was quite unsuccessful in life, his wife cuckolded him, you know, and all this stuff.
And suddenly the guerrillas came along and gave him a minor position and he felt important and he wanted to please them by betraying people that he knew all his life.
That, I think, is the most extraordinary thing to me, that people had a chance.
I don't think that they could have saved you anyway.
No, no, they couldn't.
But as you know, you know, some of those
What's good about it is that there were people who stood up and they said, this is wrong, you know.
And I'm sure that for these people you have... And they were not, one of them was, you know, a communist and so forth.
It doesn't matter to me, he was a human being.
Well, one of the judges you point out tried to... Yeah, but he didn't have the guts to go through with it.
Yeah, he died.
I don't know how to put this question, but I'm sure you would have asked, but did you have to overcome any resentment for your father?
Did you ever have any resentment for your father?
Did you have to come to terms with this?
I came to terms with my father a long time ago.
You spell it out in the book, and I mean... My father was a, you know, any faults, any wrongs that my father committed were done because he's an innocent, you know, and he is a naive person, an innocent person, and Paul always believed, you know, had a positive view of life, and...
made wrong judgments as a result.
So, you know, I... And he was his own toughest critic, you know.
So... But he was very... When we came here, you know, he raised us... You had never seen him?
I'd never seen him till those nine years old.
He raised us and he was very supportive and...
He's a wonderful man, you know, and I mean, I love him dearly, and I always had a good relationship with him.
At what point did it really strike you that your mother was, I mean, you're a young kid, it's hard for a child that age to really comprehend death and the fidelity of it, and I wonder, I mean, at what point did you really understand that your mother was dead?
I mean, you wouldn't have been able to see her again.
I don't think really... I mean, rationally understood it when we were leaving for the States and we came here and then my sister came and I knew that... See, one of my sisters stayed behind and she came back later.
And as long as we were waiting for her to find out what happened to her, it hadn't really sunk in that my mother was dead because we were waiting for someone.
When my sister finally came and we knew my mother was not coming, then it dawned on me.
But I really never, I didn't quite
accept it all until I was an adult, you know, and I went back to the village with my sisters and we had a memorial service, I talked about that in the book.
And, you know, it was the, it was the first time I cried.
Now I cry all the time.
I reread that, page 299, I think it is again.
299.
I mean, just, uh, that, uh, page 2A, that last, I have your progress right now, and that's where I was reading it.
Yeah.
And I had it close with the book, you know, and I thought, wow, that's, uh, that's very heavy stuff.
I imagine writing that was, was a tremendously, I mean, I feel,
yourself on the page.
Yeah.
I don't know if I'm articulating it.
Yeah, I... But was this a hard, difficult thing to write?
I think we touched on that earlier, that you wanted to wait until you were really developed as a writer, as an investor in there, and everything else.
But also, with the maturity of judgment that I imagine was necessary to put it into perspective.
Do you still have that, that cross that she put around your neck?
She knew it was the last time.
Yeah, she knew, yeah, of course she knew.
I don't have it.
When we, we moved once from Greendell Avenue to Lincoln Street, it was about three years after we came here, and I had it packed in a shoebox with, you know, a lot of things that I valued, and
The movie was somehow, you know, the shoebox never got to the new house and I never found it.
I have one like it, which I can show you, but I don't have the particular cross.
You kicked this off.
Well, and it had another thing.
It had a picture of me as a baby, the only picture of me as a baby, in which you see my mother's hand holding up my clothes
showing my private parts to demonstrate to my father that I'm a boy because, you know, she'd had four daughters.
That picture was in the same box.
Some of the most... the things that I value most now were lost in it.
That's funny.
I mean, the documentation... Yes, yes, yes.
How about being a trained newspaper man?
I mean, your whole professional life has been to be objective, objective, to be... How about a story like this, which is, you know, your life, the torture, the murder of your mother.
I mean, how does one handle that professional?
Well, you know, I wasn't...
being, you know, my objective here was to be accurate, not necessarily be objective, because the thing about writing is what Kazan told you, remember, you know, unless you expose yourself, you come out completely naked, you know, that it doesn't work.
And the hardest thing for me
having been trained as a reporter, was to look into myself and expose myself.
And like I wrote in the book, for many times I could not bear to hear about my mother's torture.
I mean, I could accept her being killed more than being tortured, you know.
And I heard it
you know, I would avoid the people who knew.
When did you first learn that?
Not here, I think.
No, when I went back to Greece for the first time in 1963 when I finished college.
And who told you about those people?
Well, some of those people who had been there, you know, and they said she came down and feet were swollen.
I couldn't bear to hear a thing, you know.
And then later, but I knew where those people were and I kept track of them and I knew I would eventually someday have to go back.
And I did it slowly, you know, where I would learn a little bit.
And then finally, when I had the whole thing sketched out, I went back to them and got it all.
And people...